[Music]
I'll bet you've heard about this theory
that we only use 10% of our brains
potential and if we could do more than
that
we'd have superpowers teleport and maybe
time travel this is a century old myth
that got everyone hooked on the idea
that if we had more knowledge we could
surpass Einstein it all goes back to the
1890s when a psychology professor at
Harvard claimed that humans don't reach
their full potential his statement
gained a ton of momentum and started
spreading in the 1920s a self-help
movement began based on that belief
where a ton of books came out trying to
motivate people
but the 10% myth was a misinterpretation
of neurological research in the late
19th century neurologists have now
disproven it saying that on any given
day were able to use 100% of our brain
so what would happen if we gained
infinite knowledge
well picture this you've woken up and
you feel differently you scan around
your room and see the plant you bought
two months ago suddenly you know its
name what plant species it is when it
came into existence on earth when it
will cease to exist and how it grew from
a seed you watched its life flash before
your eyes then at the corner of the room
you catch a quick glimpse of the guitar
your mom got you from a thrift store you
see how is manufactured decades ago and
who purchased it first you listen to the
songs played on it around a campfire and
how the owner ended up giving it to
charity
but then you see its future you'll
accidentally break it in three years
while you're moving out of your parents
house you head downstairs and meet your
brother in the kitchen you see him
talking with your mom about whether he's
done his homework the night before your
shot not only do you know what homework
he had but you can also tell that he's
lying and you can read his mind now
don't get me wrong there could be some
benefits to becoming a real-life
encyclopedia but there could be a
downside to our brain is like a
super-fast processing computer with
a ton of storage more than a billion
neurons connect to create the network
that makes up our thoughts and how we
understand the world right now all the
neurons in my brain are connecting and
I'm thinking that Mars is the only
planet we know of that's controlled by
robots what are you thinking now let me
know in the comments I'm looking forward
to reading the weirdest replies your
brain is responsible for your sleep your
dreams your appetite and every move you
make our knowledge capacity is colossal
if we had unlimited information we could
find a way to live forever or we could
descend into chaos
maybe our brain could create a black
hole or it could explode that would be
mind blowing on its own literally but
I'll get into that in a bit the full
capacity of the human intellect isn't
fixed but some studies estimate it to be
2.5 petabytes so if our mind was a
computer it could store up to 300 years
worth of videos and no petabytes are not
dog biscuits let's go back to your room
and imagine you have all the knowledge
in the world there are three possible
outcomes in that scenario one is that
you'll regret it instantly you won't be
able to deal with all the knowledge
because you'll probably learn something
you didn't want to know you'd be aware
of everyone's thoughts feelings what's
happening around the world at any given
time and what's about to happen so it
could be damaging to your own sense of
self another possibility is that you'll
feel superior to everyone else you'll
know the outcome of any action before it
happens and you could read people's
minds because of this every consequence
will be predicted you'd already know
every decision a person will make even
before they do so it'd be like watching
a movie in real time and if nobody else
is superior to you then one of these two
things could happen you'll turn into a
super villain where you use your
knowledge for bad or you try to help the
whole world the second one will
overwhelm you you'll have to care for
more than just one person I mean it's
hard enough for me to keep once in
character alive imagine having to do
that with 7 billion people in real time
the third possible outcome is that
you'll lose your humanity that's a
continuation of the second scenario
infinite knowledge is something no human
has ever experienced you'd see what
happens beyond the universe you'd know
about other intelligent life and alien
civilizations you'd even be aware of
whether or not we have souls then you
wouldn't be able to experience the
emotions that make us human such as
surprise hope Wonder and fear our
feelings are based on the unknown so if
you know everything it'd be impossible
to experience them you'd become an
emotionless robot one solution is to
ignore what you just learned and act
like it isn't there but for how long if
you're aware of the outcome of an event
how would you be able to ignore it even
then that's the least of your problems
remember the neurons I told you about
earlier well memories are formed through
billions of their connections these
connections are called synapses and they
can become stronger or weaker in order
to form a memory the brain uses two
methods chemical and electrical synapses
the chemical synapses send information
through a neural pathway think of it
this way one little neuron releases
molecules inside a small space and the
neuron next to it picks it up now in an
electrical synapse there's a gap between
neurons so proteins create a link to
connect the two electrical synapses
don't go far but they are fast they're
the ones we use when we need to respond
instantly the chemical one is for
processing information that doesn't
require you to act right away so if you
had to learn all the information in the
world at once you'd only use electrical
synapses and if infinite knowledge were
to travel through your brain it
overloaded there wouldn't be enough
pathways available for it to go through
so automatically your mind will select
the data that's important and delete the
rest that means you won't know
everything after all
but for the sake of argument let's
assume that your brain has a powerful
CPU and huge processing capabilities
what happens to your memory memories are
our way of telling time the more we have
stored in our brain the more we've lived
and experienced that's why time seems to
pass slower when we're in class learning
new things then when we're out having
fun picture yourself in class staring at
a clock when you watch the seconds go by
they seem to be moving slower and slower
your brain is filled with information as
your eyes move when the pointer it lands
on the next second you're still
processing data and it appears like time
is slowing down if you were to gain
infinite knowledge all at once your
brain would process that information
forever think of how your computer
freezes when you import all the data at
once the same thing would happen to your
mind time would freeze and so would your
brain a brain freeze without ice cream
hmm but let's also ignore these
biological limitations can we ignore
physics too let's go back for a second
while you're trying to learn everything
the electrical synapses will have to
create the memories all at once there we
have more issues your brain will get
overwhelmed with the flow of electrons
then neurons will start shooting signals
like crazy the proteins will struggle to
keep up so everything will go down the
same pathway and that won't last for
long the proteins will heat up like an
electrical wire because of resistance
and they'll get destroyed by the current
and this is when gravity comes into play
your mind is now a small area with an
infinite number of electrons like all
subatomic particles electrons have a
mass and therefore gravity so finite
area plus infinite electrons equal a
black hole as the knowledge begins to
make its way through your brain the
infinite electrons will create a
gravitational pull and start to suck in
everything around you including your
plant and your guitar and your brother's
homework but your problems won't end
there there's a theory that black holes
can only grow but in this event
something called Hawking radiation will
be more applicable where the black hole
will evaporate and so will your brain so
it's settled
we can't beat biology and we can't beat
physics it's usually the other way
around I don't know all the knowledge in
the world including predicting the
future seems like a lot of work I'd
rather read the occasional book and
watch cat videos on YouTube so there hey
if you learn something new today then
give the video a like and share it with
a friend and here are some other cool
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life